- [Instructor] So let's get down to coding these APIs.
So let's call the API to get all the tour packages.
We need an endpoint called tourPackages
such that HttP Get /tourPackages
fetches all the tourPackages in JSON format.
Httpget/tourPackages/code, fetches one tour package
with the provided code.
Ready, set go!
Done!
I'm not kidding you.
Because we included Spring Data Rest
as one of our project dependencies,
there is no coding necessary to implement these APIs.
At application startup, Spring Data Rest
scans the class files and finds
the spring data repositories,
creates an endpoint that matches the entity name,
appends and S, and exposes the operations as APIs.
So here, we have the mapping for create.
Which sit eh HTTP Post.
The mappings for read, which is HTTP Get for all or one.
The mappings for update which is HTTP Put or Patch.
This requires looking up the entity first
and finally, delete, which is HTTP Delete.
So let's try it out.
Our explore California is already running on my desktop.
I'm going to use Postman to exercise the APIs.
I'm going to do an HTTP Get.
On local host, :8080/tourpackages.
And the following response is in (mumbles) specification.
We see that the name is a string attribute.
But instead of the code attribute,
there is a link.self.href.
This is a hypermedia link to the individual package.
I'm actually going to click on that link.
And I'm going to call get on tourpackages/BC,
which is the code for Backpack Cali.
And there's the response body.
Because the data is hypermedia-driven,
the ID of the resource is the self.href.link.
The client does not have to manually append the ID
to the resource, it just gets the value
of self.href to obtain the entry in a list.
We are getting a taste of the beauty of hypermedia here.
Most (mumbles) developers prefer consuming
hypermedia-driven APIs because it makes their codes
smaller, cleaner and easier to maintain.
So let's go through create, read and update,
as well as delete methods for the tour package API.
I'm going to create a brand new package tour package
called Zany Cali.
So that will involve a post to a tour packages endpoint.
I need a body here, which will be JSON.
So I have a code attribute called ZC.
And a name attribute called Zany Cali.
And I send that.
And I get the response back, 201 created.
The JSON data elements mapped directly
to the tour package attributes.
Since we are creating a new object,
we must provide the ID or the code
because it's not auto-generated.
So, the 201 created means it created the object
and the database and it actually returned
the contents of it.
Let's try to create a package without a code.
So I'm going to delete this code and rename,
and have something called Crazy Cali.
I get a 500 error back and that's because
there is no code provided.
Now, let's look at Zany Cali.
Code get.
And we get the Zany Cali back.
Now, let's modify Zany Cali and change the name of it
to California Zoos.
We'll put, and here's this body
that was leftover from before
and we'll call California Zoos.
And send that.
So now, the ZC is mapped to California Zoos.
And finally, let's delete the tour package.
So calling delete on tour packages I just, /ZC.
Send that and we get a 204 content,
which is what we are looking for.
Now, let's verify that by trying to look it up.
Calling get on that endpoint.
And we get a 404 not found because the object
no longer exists in the database.
Any errors that occur on the repository level
are passed back in the HTTP status.
For example, I cannot delete a tour package
that is already associated with the tour
because it would cause a referential integrity error.
Let's try that.
Let's try to delete Backpack Cali.
You know that the code for that is BC.
This returns a referential integrity constraint
violation message, put the 409 conflict status.
And that's exactly what we wanted.
We don't want that to be deletable.
So, all this time, we were creating repositories,
we were also creating hypermedia-driven APIs
just because we included this spring boot starter
data rest dependency in our pom.xml.